now Hamas meanwhile has told people
living in Northern Gaza to stay in their
homes that's despite the warning from
Israel's military for them to be
evacuate Israel has told 1.1 million
people to leave that's about half of the
population of the entire Gaza Strip our
team from German public television sent
this report from inside
Gaza this Gaza hotel has become a refuge
for civilians diplomats and journalists
a place of relative safety set back from
the surrounding residential blocks in
this densely populated
area the air billowing with smoke and
dust from Israeli missile strikes
Israeli media say
3,600 Targets in Gaza have so far been
hit fisa is a trained pharmacist she
does what she can to treat the
injured administering first
aid in the hope that an ambulance will
come to take the casualties to
hospital at the moment we have four
wounded people here we've tried our best
to stabilize them but we need an
ambulance as quickly as possible there
just aren't any we've been waiting for
five hours
already hardly anyone dares Venture onto
the street one cameraman gets as far as
the hotel
[Applause]
entrance nearby housing takes a direct
hit moments later another strike
this time the shock wave reaches the
hotel
lobby Hamas Fighters can Retreat to an
extensive network of tunnels but there's
nowhere for the Civil population to go
Palestinian officials say more than 1500
people have been killed including nearly
500 children the humanitarian situation
is getting more desperate as Israel
blocks power and Waters
supplies fuel for generators is running
low in the darkness repeated missile
strikes the whole situation out there is
inhuman we urgently need humanitarian
intervention foreigners may be stuck
here but we also need a way out these
are civilians here mothers and children
but even with a safe way out we wouldn't
know where to
go fisa and many others remain at the
hotel no one knows how long they will be
there and we're going to cross over to
Gaza now to speak to Hashim baloa he's a
journalist based there and he joins me
via telephone good to have you on the
program Hashim so just as we've been
discussing with my colleague uh the
Israeli Defense Forces has given people
24 hours to leave Northern Gaza what is
happening where you
are it's fly CTIC here the chaos people
are lost um I mean they lost their minds
they like they are thinking calling
everybody trying to communicate and to
understand what's happening this is the
new thing that happened in Gaza never
been before uh people don't know what to
do where to go um despite the local Comm
Authority here saying like this is this
is is um um this is not true and people
shouldn't leave and they have to stay in
their places but without giving them any
instruction what to do um you know even
if the people decided to leave I mean
it's it's impossible that the capacity
and and the capabilities of the other
part of Gaza STP wouldn't be able to
contain the 1 million or over 1 million
move from North and Gaza City to the
South um infrastructure there is l mited
as well as like even there's no enough
schools for for for those people to move
and in the same time that b in in in of
the Gaza Strip is not totally safe I
mean there was um and now an air strike
over there I can hear and see the smoke
um and and you know there was an an um
air strike yesterday in in Dar which is
which is in includ included in the area
the the
Israel instructed people to go and there
was like um about 20 22 people were
killed there according to the local
report and ra as well so people don't
know I mean it's not safe there and they
always raise the question and wonder
where to go how to go and and and what
to do and you know is it safe it's not I
I just want to come in on that point
there um because you seem to be um
alluding to the fact that there's been
mixed messaging people not knowing if it
is true indeed that they have to
evacuate um I'm interested to know if if
you're going to be evacuating have you
made plans to do that and what does this
entail from a logistical perspective is
there the infrastructure to move people
at that
scale uh if I I mean the the the sound
wasn't wasn't clear enough but if I hear
it like you have it myself yes I'm I'm
thinking of that since the early morning
I received a recorded message from idea
saying that for the nor General one and
and you have to evacuate for and without
saying even it's like how long or you
know which period for rules they didn't
give instruction to anything I wouldn't
I wouldn't lie yeah I'm I'm keeping this
and and an option and I'm looking for
what place to go because honestly I
don't know where to go you know like
even I have my car and and it's like
limited amount of the fuel in there and
barely able to to to to go there with
with a fuel remaining in
in my car and um and there is no um um
uh there is no no fuel I can refill it
from the stations in gva because all all
the fu is run out or stored in in some
places so um to be honest and my wife my
kids and neighbors I'm I'm staying at
like currently I moved out of my my
house like a few days ago and I'm in in
a relative house so and I'm thinking now
to go somewhere but I mean I don't know
where I'm still figuring out where where
and and and how it's going to make it
happen you know Hashem um you were
talking about the situation in the South
and and you were you were you were
saying that it's just not possible for
the South to be able to to host that
many people um at at a single point in
time we also know that the only exit in
the South would be through Egypt but
that border is closed all right it might
be that we've lost that connection to
Hashem I'm just trying to establish if
that indeed is the case um he had
alluded to the fact that he was having
difficulty hearing me so understandably
we have now lost uh that question to
Hashem but we heard him telling us there
how difficult the situation and people
have received messages uh to leave but
of course that is a difficult thing for
people infrastructure he talked about
having a car but it doesn't have fuel uh
so that is a situation as we're hearing
it from gaja we'll see if we can maybe
get him back onto the program later to
finish that conversation but for now
that was the journalist um Hashem baloa
in Gaza talking to us there I'm now
joined by Ahmed bam uh he is the Middle
East Regional media and Communications
advisor at the Norwegian Refugee Council
he joins us from Aman welcome to DW what
are you hearing from your staff on the
ground in
Gaza morning uh our staff are perplexed
really by last night's announcement we
have moved from worry
to uh Panic to fear and now perplexity
this there is um this announcement is
going to threaten not just our staff not
just um an entire or half of of the
population in Gaza but also the future
of this um you know uh conflict our sta
um 50 of them Palestinians over 50 of
them have to leave home they are fearing
for their lives their children don't
know what is
happening and they think that what is
happening is
punishment um for um an entire
population uh this is honestly I'm
speaking to you and I'm thinking of my
colleagues some of them have been
disconnected from the world who don't
know where to go this morning this is
the this is the phrase that everyone is
repeating we don't know where to go and
our colleagues um are not even able um
to
um well in these
circumstances ammed the order is uh from
the IDF that people in Northern Gaza
Must ALL head south um and they've been
given 24 hours is that
realistic it's not just unrealistic it's
really um I think a reckless attempt to
uh Panic people um there is no there is
no honestly there's no gend genuine way
you can achieve that hospitals in North
Gaza have been uh have been targeted
they are um overflooded with patience
some of them in life-threatening
situations and also that kind of order
gives the impression that um Southern
Gaza is safe and that is simply not true
a lot of areas and Unice even the RAF
Crossing has been has been uh targeted
um so there are there are no shelters to
take people in there is no aid for
people there is no places for people to
stay in and this is not just unrealistic
but it's it's also a flagrant breach of
international law amid I want to pick up
on the point you're making about Aid we
know that there is a desperate need for
Aid to get into Gaza right now has there
been any breakthrough on that
front there hasn't um there hasn't
Israel threatens to uh bomb the r
Crossing if Egypt tries
to Aid in the humanit humanitarian
corridors and humanitarian fors that we
have been asking for is not just
unachievable as of now because of
Israel's actions we're actually heading
in the opposite direction the direction
of escalation against the civilian
population of two million people um
under the pretext of of of a response to
a group of of of armed groups
this is not how um how you deal with a
situation where you are obviously laying
a Siege um over two million people the
entire Gaza Strip is less than 400
kilometers square kilometers um two
million people are frowned into this
into this strip they are being being
bombarded from every side and you know
latest you hear is you're telling them
to go from one unsafe and dangerous area
to
another all right we'll leave it there
Ahmed Bam from the Norwegian Refugee
Council thank you for for
that